1.1 The Elements of Programming

Every programming language has these three mechanisms:

Primitive expressions, the simplest entities the language is concerned with.
Means of combinations, compound elements are built from simpler ones.
Means of abstractions, compound elements can be named and manipulated as units.

procedures & data

1.1.1 Expressions

Expressions such as these ((+ 2000 19), (* 25 4)), formed by delimiting a list of expressions within parentheses in order to denote procedure application, are called combinations.

The leftmost element ... called operator ... and the other elements are called operands.

Then applying the procedure specified by the operator to the arguments that are the values of operands.

pretty-printing & read-eval-print-loop

1.1.2 Naming and Environment

We name things with define.

(define myAge 27)
(define size 20)

size
20

(* 5 size)
100

Our language's simplest means of abstraction, for it allows us to use simple names to refer to the rsults of compound operations ...

... the interpreter must maintain some sort of memory that keeps track of the name-object pairs. This memory is called environment ...

1.1.3 Evaluating Combinations

What does evaluating combinations means?

Step 1: Evaluate the subexpressions of combination.
Step 2:  Apply the operator to the operands.

That is, it includes, as one of its steps, the need to invoke the rule itself.

In fact, the "percolate values upward" form of the evaluation rule is an example of a general kind of process known as tree accumulation.

Step 1's final result: only primitive expressions (numerals), built-in operators or other names left between parentheses.

- The values of numerals are the numbers that they name.
- The values of built-in operators are the machine instruction sequences that carry out the corresponding operations.
- The values of other names are the objects associated with those names in the environment.

* (define x 3) is not a combination, it's a special form.

The evaluation rule for expressions can be described by a simple general rule together with specialized rules for a small number of special forms.